README.md, before:

# Limbo: the file sharing lightweight service

This project implements lightweight web page with easy possibility to upload, download, list, remove files.
It requires no login.
All files are automatically deleted 24 hours after upload.

## Configuration

### Config file

You can edit [config.py](config.py) to set custom options. All of them may be overloaded using environment variables.

### Environment variables

* LIMBO_WEB_SERVER : Default value is 'wsgiref'. Python web server name. 'wsgiref' is available by default. Other values will need installing appropriate python component. Supported values: 'wsgiref', 'paste', 'cherrypy', ...
* LIMBO_LISTEN_HOST : Default value is 'localhost'. IP address to listen. Usually 127.0.0.1 or localhost should be used for local testing, 0.0.0.0 for production.
* LIMBO_LISTEN_PORT : Default value is '8080'. IP port to listen (HTTP). Usually port 80 is used on production.
* LIMBO_STORAGE_DIRECTORY : Default value is './storage'. Directory to store uploaded files in. If not exists it will be created automatically with access rights 755. This may be absolute path of path relative to Limbo root directory.
* LIMBO_STORAGE_WEB_URL_BASE : Default value is ''. Allows to specify alternative web url to read files stored in STORAGE_DIRECTORY through HTTP/HTTPS. It is expected this URL is served by standalone web server. Empty string disables this setting. Value requires ending '/' character.
* LIMBO_MAX_STORAGE_SECONDS : Default value is '86400'. Time duration in seconds after which uploaded file will be automatically removed. 86400 seconds is equal to 24 hours. Automatic file purging happens approximately every 10 minutes.
* LIMBO_IS_DEBUG : Default value is '0'. Enable debug mode in bottle web framework. It will disable web page template caching.

## How to run the service

1. Copy files from this repo
2. Install service dependecies
    ```
    python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. Run the service:
    ```
    python3 duplo.py
    ```
4. Open web page http://localhost:8080/

### Docker

The following command will build docker image and will run container listening on localhost:8080.
After container is stopped it will be automatically deleted with all currently stored files.
Don't forget to elevate priviledges before running docker! (sudo)

```
docker run --rm -it -p 127.0.0.1:8080:80 $(docker build --quiet .)
```

The following usage will do the same but will also mount persistent directory for stored files (~/limbo_storage).

```
docker run --rm -it -p 127.0.0.1:8080:80 -v ~/limbo_storage:/tmp/storage $(docker build --quiet .)
```

### Run in Windows

You can also run the service in Windows by the following command:
```
run-server-on-windows.cmd
```

### Choosing underlaying web server

Here is a number of bottle-compliant WSGI web servers tested with Limbo.
Particular web server versions can be checked in [requirements.dev.txt]

- wsgiref - works, logging to console
- cherrypy - works, no logging to console
- tornado - works, no logging to console
- twisted - works, no logging to console
- waitress - works, no logging to console
- paste - works, logging to console, but no support for utf-8 in URLs
- flup - starts and do not handle any requests (Windows). All HTTP requests are hanging
- gevent - can't resolve dependencies in Windows in runtime
- gunicorn - can't resolve dependencies in Windows in runtime

Commit message:

upload speedup: process request body by chunks async (using streaming_form_data module)

README.md, after:

# Limbo: the file sharing lightweight service

This project implements lightweight web page with easy possibility to upload, download, list, remove files.
It requires no login.
All files are automatically deleted 24 hours after upload.

## Configuration

### Config file

You can edit [config.py](config.py) to set custom options. All of them may be overloaded using environment variables.

### Environment variables

* LIMBO_WEB_SERVER : Default value is 'wsgiref'. Python web server name. 'wsgiref' is available by default. Other values will need installing appropriate python component. Supported values: 'wsgiref', 'paste', 'cherrypy', ...
* LIMBO_LISTEN_HOST : Default value is 'localhost'. IP address to listen. Usually 127.0.0.1 or localhost should be used for local testing, 0.0.0.0 for production.
* LIMBO_LISTEN_PORT : Default value is '8080'. IP port to listen (HTTP). Usually port 80 is used on production.
* LIMBO_STORAGE_DIRECTORY : Default value is './storage'. Directory to store uploaded files in. If not exists it will be created automatically with access rights 755. This may be absolute path of path relative to Limbo root directory.
* LIMBO_STORAGE_WEB_URL_BASE : Default value is ''. Allows to specify alternative web url to read files stored in STORAGE_DIRECTORY through HTTP/HTTPS. It is expected this URL is served by standalone web server. Empty string disables this setting. Value requires ending '/' character.
* LIMBO_MAX_STORAGE_SECONDS : Default value is '86400'. Time duration in seconds after which uploaded file will be automatically removed. 86400 seconds is equal to 24 hours. Automatic file purging happens approximately every 10 minutes.
* LIMBO_IS_DEBUG : Default value is '0'. Enable debug mode in bottle web framework. It will disable web page template caching.

## How to run the service

1. Copy files from this repo
2. Install service dependecies
    ```
    python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. Run the service:
    ```
    python3 duplo.py
    ```
4. Open web page http://localhost:8080/

### Docker

The following command will build docker image and will run container listening on localhost:8080.
After container is stopped it will be automatically deleted with all currently stored files.
Don't forget to elevate priviledges before running docker! (sudo)

```
docker run --rm -it -p 127.0.0.1:8080:80 $(docker build --quiet .)
```

The following usage will do the same but will also mount persistent directory for stored files (~/limbo_storage).

```
docker run --rm -it -p 127.0.0.1:8080:80 -v ~/limbo_storage:/tmp/storage $(docker build --quiet .)
```

### Run in Windows

You can also run the service in Windows by the following command:
```
run-server-on-windows.cmd
```

### Choosing underlaying web server

Here is a number of bottle-compliant WSGI web servers tested with Limbo.
Particular web server versions can be checked in [requirements.dev.txt]

- wsgiref - logging to console, does not support async post body reading
- cherrypy - works, no logging to console
- tornado - no logging to console, does not support big file upload (100+ MB)
- twisted - slow works, no logging to console, very slow (ignores async nature of streaming_form_data)
- waitress - slow works, no logging to console, very slow (ignores async nature of streaming_form_data)
- paste - partly works, logging to console, but no support for utf-8 in URLs
- flup - starts and do not handle any requests (Windows). All HTTP requests are hanging
- gevent - can't resolve dependencies in Windows in runtime
- gunicorn - can't resolve dependencies in Windows in runtime
